DOCS-6567 SharePoint 2010 M3 update (#1076)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft-sharepoint-2010-connector.adoc

= Microsoft SharePoint 2010 Connector - Mule 3
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Microsoft SharePoint 2010 Connector v1.0

> Anypoint Connector for Microsoft SharePoint 2010 (SharePoint 2010 Connector) is a web app platform for content and document management, intranet portals, collaboration, extranets, websites,and enterprise search. The Microsoft SharePoint connector for Anypoint platform enables integration with SharePoint 2010 through its SOAP API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for Microsoft SharePoint 2010 (SharePoint 2010 Connector) is a web app platform for content and document management, intranet portals, collaboration, extranets, websites, and enterprise search. The connector enables integration with SharePoint 2010 through its SOAP API.
```

Reviewer: Please verify that this suggested rewording is still technically accurate.

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/microsoft-sharepoint-2010-connector-release-notes.adoc[Microsoft SharePoint 2010 Connector Release Notes] +
Samples: link:{attachmentsdir}/sharepoint-2010-connector-samples.zip[sharepoint-2010-connector-samples.zip]

== Supported Operations

* Lists and List Items API: Create, delete, retrieve, and update lists and list items
* Files and Folders API: Create, delete, retrieve folders. Add, retrieve content, retrieve metadata, delete, check out, undo check out, check in, publish, unpublish, approve, deny, and copy files

== POM File Information

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.mule.modules</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-module-sharepoint-2010</artifactId>
  <version>RELEASE</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

Mule converts RELEASE to the latest version. To specify a version, view 
https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.modules/mule-module-sharepoint-2010/[Microsoft SharePoint 2010 Connector] in
Anypoint Exchange and click *Dependency Snippets*.

== Install the Connector

. In Anypoint Studio, click the Exchange icon in the Studio task bar.

> . Click Login in Anypoint Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Login* in Anypoint Exchange.
```

== Security Token Authentication

You can use a SAML security token to log in to SharePoint. You can provide an XML body via a POST request to get the security token that you put in the Studio Security Token field. 

To obtain a security token, make a POST request to `+https://login.microsoftonline.com/extSTS.srf+` with this XML body:

[source,text,linenums]
----
<s:Envelope xmlns:s="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope"
      xmlns:a="http://www.w3.org/2005/08/addressing"
      xmlns:u="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-utility-1.0.xsd">
  <s:Header>

>     <a:Action s:mustUnderstand="1">http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/02/trust/RST/Issue</a:Action>

Reviewer: space ok?

    <a:ReplyTo>
      <a:Address>http://www.w3.org/2005/08/addressing/anonymous</a:Address>
    </a:ReplyTo>

>     <a:To s:mustUnderstand="1">https://login.microsoftonline.com/extSTS.srf</a:To>

Reviewer: space ok?

    <o:Security s:mustUnderstand="1"
       xmlns:o="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-secext-1.0.xsd">
      <o:UsernameToken>
        <o:Username>[username]</o:Username>
        <o:Password>[password]</o:Password>
      </o:UsernameToken>
    </o:Security>
  </s:Header>
  <s:Body>
    <t:RequestSecurityToken xmlns:t="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/02/trust">
      <wsp:AppliesTo xmlns:wsp="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2004/09/policy">
        <a:EndpointReference>
          <a:Address>[endpoint]</a:Address>
        </a:EndpointReference>
      </wsp:AppliesTo>
      <t:KeyType>http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/NoProofKey</t:KeyType>
      <t:RequestType>http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/02/trust/Issue</t:RequestType>
      <t:TokenType>urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.0:assertion</t:TokenType>
    </t:RequestSecurityToken>
  </s:Body>
</s:Envelope>
----

> The response from the previous request contains the security token between the <wsse:BinarySecurityToken> tags.

Reviewer: ditto re. accuracy:
```suggestion
The response to this request contains the security token between the <wsse:BinarySecurityToken> tags.
```

After you have a security token, specify the token value in Studio:

image::sharepoint/sharepoint-security-token-config.png[Security Token Configuration]

> * Security token: Enter the corresponding security token

Reviewer: period

> * Site URL: Enter the corresponding site URL

Reviewer: period

+
* File Check Out
+
Checks out a file from a document library.
+
* File Undo Check Out
+
Reverts an existing checkout for a file.
+
* File Check In
+
Checks in a file to a document library.
+
* File Publish
+
Submits the file for content approval.
+
* File Unpublish
+
Removes a file from content approval or unpublish a major version.
+
* File Approve
+
Approves a file submitted for content approval.
+
* File Deny
+
Denies approval for a file that was submitted for content approval.
+
* File Copy To
+
Copies the file to the destination URL.
+
* File Query
+
Retrieves all files from a folder that matches the specified criteria.
+
Additionally to the selected fields, the following fields are always returned:
+
** Created: Creation date of the item
** Created_x0020_Date
** DocIcon
** Editor: A user
** FileLeafRef: Name of the folder
** FileRef: Relative URL of the folder
** FSObjType
** Last_x0020_Modified
** _Level
** MetaInfo
** _ModerationStatus
+
Moderation Status of the file if it belongs to a library that has moderation enabled
+
** Modified
+
Modification date of the item
+
** PermMask
** ProgId
** showshiddenversion
** UniqueId

== Reference Objects

> In case a *SharepointListReference* or *SharepointListMultiValueReference* is selected to be returned by a query, the returned value of the field depends on the value of the Retrieve full objects for reference fields parameter:

Reviewer: Should the parameter name be formatted so that the sentence is easier to read?
```suggestion
In case *SharepointListReference* or *SharepointListMultiValueReference* is selected for return by a query, the returned value of the field depends on the value of the `Retrieve full objects for reference fields` parameter:
```

}
----

> Checked: The full object graph retrieves. In case there is a cycle, the summary reference object is shown:

Reviewer: "the full object graph retrieves"?
```suggestion
Checked: The full object that the graph retrieves
In case there is a cycle, the summary reference object is shown:
```

}
----

> *Note*: Checking this option may cause large items with many reference fields to take a long time to retrieve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note*: Checking this option might cause large items with many reference fields to take a long time to retrieve.
```
